## ECON 0150 | Spring 2025 | Homework 10

### Due: Sunday, March 30, 5PM

This homework is designed to offer a starting point for your final project by formulating a research question, identifying a collaboration partner, working with economic data, creating visualizations, and conducting regression analysis. Submit your results to Gradescope.

1. Formulate an economic research question that you might have some interest in. This doesn't need to be your final project question but could serve as a starting point.

   

2. Working with a classmate can be helpful, sharing the workload, brainstorming, and thinking through problems. Is there someone you would like to collaborate with on the final project?

   - Yes, they're name is: ______________
   - I would like to be paired with someone.
   - No, I would like to work alone (no recommended).

   

3. Find and download a dataset relevant to your research question from a reliable source (e.g., World Bank, BLS, FRED, IMF). There are more resources on the course website. The dataset should include at least 2 variables and sufficient observations (usually $n>30$) to support analysis. Provide a link to your dataset.

   

4. Create at least one visualization that illustrates a key variable or relationship related to your research question in Q1.

   

5. In one sentence interpret what your visualization reveals about your question.

   

6. Construct and run a simple linear model related to your research question. Your coefficients do not need to be statistically significant. In 150-200 words, connect your regression results to your research question and discuss potential next steps for more sophisticated analysis.